I'm thankful for the opportunity this morning
as we think about the timing and timeline
of what we're celebrating.
Of course, next Sunday, Resurrection Sunday.
And every single Sunday we meet on Sunday
because we serve a risen savior.
And once in the year we celebrate specifically
Resurrection Sunday, Easter Sunday.
And I'm thankful even as I prayed this morning
that he rose again according to the scriptures, amen.
And what a blessing, the Old Testament prophesied of it.
The New Testament in the gospels, Jesus spoke of it.
Destroy this temple and in three days I will raise it up.
And hallelujah, the grave could not hold him.
And we'll celebrate that next week.
And so this week we're really celebrating
the triumphal entry.
Many people would refer to it as Palm Sunday.
And of course, this week being the week
in which we would commemorate the fact that Jesus died
on the cross of Calvary for the sin of humanity.
And I'll be in Hebrews chapter number 10 this morning.
And in fact, as you begin to look at Hebrews chapter number 10
the Bible makes a comparison there
between the Old Testament, the law,
having a shadow of good things to come.
And I'm gonna read some, actually I'm gonna ask you
to take your hymnal as well and look at a song real quickly
to kind of begin our service.
But there's a verse that I wanna point out
in verse number 10, and we'll go through verse 18
through the message this morning.
But in Hebrews 10 and verse 18, the Bible says,
"'By the witch will we are sanctified
"'through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ.'"
Notice those three words, once for all.
And that's the title for the message this morning,
once for all.
And many of you would be familiar with the hymn
that we sing that has that, actually it's title,
once for all, it's in your hymnal number 372
if you wanna look at some of the words there with me.
But I love the song, it's a wonderful hymn.
And in 372 in your hymnal there,
the songwriter Philip P. Bliss wrote these amazing words,
obviously penned as he was meditating
upon the truth of God's word.
I would assume that the passage before us this morning
was upon his heart, even as he wrote this.
And you can think about Romans five and eight
and various portions of scripture
that God would have used to influence the songwriter
to pen these words.
Notice, free from the law, O happy condition,
Jesus hath bled and there is remission.
Cursed by the law and bruised by the fall,
grace hath redeemed us once for all.
Verse number two, now are we free?
There's no condemnation, aren't you thankful?
If you're saved this morning,
there's now therefore no condemnation
to those that are in Christ Jesus.
It continues, Jesus provides a perfect salvation.
Come unto me, O hear his sweet call.
Come and he saves us once for all.
Children of God, O glorious calling,
surely his grace will keep us from falling.
Passing from death to life at his call,
blessed salvation once for all.
The chorus says, once for all, O sinner, receive it.
Once for all, O brother, believe it.
Cling to the cross, the burden will fall.
Christ hath redeemed us once for all.
I love the great hymns and how they minister to our heart
and how they remind us of biblical teaching,
biblical truth.
The message in the book of Hebrews is a message
that exalts the Lord Jesus Christ.
In fact, we could say that the theme of the book of Hebrews
is Christ is superior, Christ is better, he is greater.
It goes through and it talks about angels and Moses
and the law and all sorts of things
and we find that in every example
that is provided in the book of Hebrews
that Christ is superior, he's greater.
We understand that he's God in flesh.
What a blessing to know that Jesus, the Lamb of God,
left the throne room of heaven
to come to the sin-cursed world.
Yes, he was born in a manger, but he was born to die
and we understand that as we get into the book of Hebrews,
you come to the 10th chapter
and the writer of Hebrews begins to explain
the deficiencies of the law
and the Old Testament sacrificial system.
Now understand that this was the law,
this was the sacrificial system
that was given by God to his people,
but the law and the sacrificial system was deficient.
It was a shadow of good things to come.
We find that the writer of the book of Galatians,
the apostle Paul, under the inspiration
of the Holy Spirit of God, says this in Galatians 3
in verse 21 and 22,
is the law then against the promises of God?
God forbid, for if there had been a law given,
which could have given life,
verily righteousness should have been by the law,
but the scripture hath concluded all under sin
that the promise of faith of Jesus Christ
might be given to them that believe.
The law cannot save.
In fact, the law simply condemns.
The law simply reveals that we're sinners.
What the law does, it cannot save us,
it cannot give us life,
but the law will bring us to the only one,
the Lord Jesus Christ, that can give life.
And we find that here,
as you move through Hebrews chapter number 10,
he speaks about the deficiencies of the law
and the Old Testament sacrificial system,
but then as you move through the chapter,
you read about the sufficiency of Christ's atonement
on the cross of Calvary.
We understand that it's a substitutionary atonement.
He died for me.
And it's important that every single person
on planet Earth recognizes and understands
that for me, he died.
He loved me personally, and he died for me.
It was a substitutionary atonement.
And we see as you continue through the book,
or through the 10th chapter,
that you start getting into even the impact of that
on believers.
See, the old system, as it says in verse number one,
notice in Hebrews 10 and verse number one,
for the law, again, that old system,
having a shadow of good things to come
and not the very image of the things
can never, with those sacrifices
which they offered year by year continually,
make the comers thereunto perfect.
He says in verse two, for then would they not
have been ceased to be offered
because that the worshipers once purged
should have had no more conscience of sins.
You know what he's saying in verse number two?
If the law could satisfy,
if those Old Testament sacrifices could satisfy,
then they would have ceased to be made those offerings.
Why?
Because it would have covered,
it would have satisfied the demands of our holy God.
So he says, for then would they not have ceased
to be offered.
No, they didn't cease.
In fact, he continues in verse three,
but in those sacrifices, notice what he says,
there is a remembrance again made of sins every year.
Now, as you begin reading in Hebrews chapter number nine,
specifically what's in view is the day of atonement.
And it was on that particular day,
that day of atonement that the high priest
and the high priest alone with blood
would enter into the holy of holies.
It was the only time in the calendar year
that he was permitted to enter into the holy of holies
and he best go in with blood.
And not only did he go in with blood,
but we understand as it's given throughout
the Old Testament, but even as it's repeated here
in chapter number nine, that he first had to make
an offering for his own sin,
then for the sin of the nation.
We understand that our great high priest,
the Lord Jesus Christ, as he's introduced to us
here in the book of Hebrews in that way,
we find that he entered in not for his own sin,
but simply for the sin of the people.
Why?
He is sinless and he is the perfect lamb of God,
the only one that could make that sacrifice.
And so we find that the old system,
it reminded, it was this continual reminder of their sin.
We see in verse number three,
it says that there's a remembrance again
made of sins every year.
Notice in verse four, for it is not possible
that the blood of bulls and of goats
should take away sins.
Wherefore, when he, verse five,
wherefore, when he cometh into the world,
who's he?
Well, that's Jesus Christ.
And we find that when he cometh into the world,
he saith, sacrifice an offering thou wouldest not,
but a body hast thou prepared for me.
And as we move through the text this morning,
we'll see this sacrifice once for all.
And what a blessing to understand the truth
that God gives us here in Hebrews chapter number 10.
We find that this sacrifice.
that was made once for all, one sacrifice as it says there
in verse number 12, after he made one,
offered one sacrifice for sins forever, hallelujah.
It's a wonderful promise and truth
that God gives us in his word.
And what happens here in Hebrews chapter number 10
is there is a focus on the remission of sins,
not the remembrance that you see
in the Old Testament system, but the remission of sins.
The reality is in chapter nine in verse number 22,
we read this wonderful promise or reality truth
that says in almost all things are by the law purged
with blood and without shedding of blood is no remission.
Now think about this with me,
all of that Old Testament sacrificial system
as they would come daily and making those sacrifices
and bringing those animals and the blood would be shed
and all that would take place,
it was a picture of Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God
who would come as we read here in once for all,
make that payment for the sin of humanity.
It was a picture as they would look forward
to Jesus coming to this earth and dying upon the cross,
of course, then rising from the dead,
conquering sin, death and the grave.
We find that in verse 18 of chapter 10,
it says now where remission of these is,
there is no more offering for sin.
And so again, we see that word remission
and we're reminded that word means forgiveness
or pardon of sins.
It really carries the idea of letting them go
as if they had never been committed.
Now understand this, it's not letting them go
as in God turns a blind eye.
No, that's not justice, amen.
Justice demands that sin be paid for.
Your sin and my sin and the sin of the world
must be paid for.
The Bible says that that sin,
it tells us the penalty of sin is what?
It's death.
For the wages of sin is death.
And we understand that God is a holy
and God is a just God.
So it's not here where it says that there's this idea
of letting them go as if they'd never been committed.
It's not the parent that decides to turn a blind eye.
It's not the legal system that's corrupt
that decides to turn a blind eye.
No, it's that he that is just, Jesus,
died for the unjust, for us.
It's that as we read in 2 Corinthians 5 in verse number 20,
for he hath made him to be sin for us,
who knew no sin that we might be made
the righteousness of God in him.
And so this morning, as we begin to think about this idea
of remission and this plan that God has for us
and we see it outlined here again, the Old Testament,
the Bible uses that term, a shadow of good things to come
and not the very image of the things.
Think about a shadow.
You can see a shadow at night, but you can't grab it.
You can't hold onto it.
It's just a shadow.
And so the imagery is obvious in Hebrews chapter number 10,
that yes, the law, listen, it had its purpose,
but that purpose has been fulfilled.
Why?
Because the book of Hebrews is being written
after Jesus went to the cross
and after he rose from the dead
and after he ascended to heaven.
And therefore that Old Testament system
really was no longer to be in operation.
Why?
Because once for all, the payment had been made.
I'm so thankful to be on this side of Calvary
and to be understanding that we can look at this passage
and we can be encouraged.
Let me just give you a few thoughts
as we go through the passage this morning.
Number one, the plan of God.
We find that in verse number five,
the Bible says, wherefore, when he cometh into the world.
It's interesting because verses five through nine,
as you look at here at the plan of God
as it's revealed to us,
really there's a quote here from Psalm 40
verses six through eight.
We won't take the time to look there,
but if you wanna jot that down,
you can go back and look at Psalm 40 verses six through eight
and if in fact, as you study through the scriptures,
no scriptures of any private interpretation
and it's wonderful to see the Old Testament fulfilled
in the New Testament
and to understand how the Bible is the supernatural book
because it's God's word.
So it says, wherefore, when he cometh into the world,
he saith, sacrifice an offering thou wouldest not.
Notice this, but a body hast thou prepared me
in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin.
Thou hast had no pleasure.
Then said I, lo, I come.
In the volume of the book, it is written of me
to do thy will, O God.
Above, when he said, sacrifice an offering
and burnt offerings and offering for sin,
thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleasure therein,
which are offered by the law.
Then said he, lo, I come to do thy will, O God.
Notice this at the end of verse number nine.
He taketh away the first that he may establish the second.
I want you to understand this morning
that it was always the plan of God for Jesus Christ
to come and to pay for the sin of humanity.
The Bible tells us, and we'll get there
as we think about the truth of 1 Peter,
that before the foundation of the world,
he is the Lamb of God slain
before the foundation of the world.
But let me take a journey with you
through the gospel of John.
Turn to John one, and I just wanna look
at just a few verses this morning
as we understand this plan that God has.
And by the way, we understand that throughout the ages
that the enemy tried to thwart the plan of God, amen,
tried to cause the line to be corrupted.
He did all sorts of things during the earthly ministry
of the Lord Jesus Christ.
There were multiple times in which there were opportunities
that people tried to take to kill Jesus.
Remember when he was claiming to be God,
they picked up stones to stone him.
Remember when he was on the ship,
the disciples said, master, carest thou not that we perish?
They truly thought they were gonna die
and drown in that storm.
And there are many things that were transpiring,
but we understand the plan of God
was always that Jesus would go to the cross.
In John chapter number one, notice in verse number 29,
as John the Baptist is ministering here,
the Bible says this, the next day,
John seeth Jesus coming unto him.
Notice what he says, behold, the Lamb of God,
which taketh away the sin of the world.
How was he gonna take away the sin of the world?
He was gonna die and pay that price for sin
with his precious blood.
And we find that here as we look at this great declaration,
behold, the Lamb of God,
which taketh away the sin of the world.
And it says in verse 36, again, as John the Baptist sees,
it's another day, the Bible says again,
the next day in verse 35 and verse 36,
and looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith,
behold, the Lamb of God.
We find that in John chapter number two,
as Jesus is interacting here with religious leaders
and the Jews are there and they asked for a sign
in verse 18 and Jesus in verse 19 answered
and said unto them, destroy this temple
and in three days I will raise it up.
Then said the Jews, 40 and six years
was this temple in building
and wilt thou rear it up in three days?
But notice verse 21, the Bible says,
but he spake of the temple of his body.
What was he talking about?
Well, destroy this temple that you're gonna put me
on a cross and I'm gonna raise it up in three days.
By the way, he did, hallelujah.
And we find this plan of the Lord,
the plan of God in John chapter number 10
and we could look at so many verses in the gospel of John,
but we're just gonna pick our way through here
and look at a few of these in John chapter number 10.
Notice what Jesus says in verse number 14.
I am the good shepherd and know my sheep
and am known of mine.
As the father knoweth me, even so know I the father
and I lay down my life for the sheep.
And other sheep I have which are not of this fold,
them also I must bring.
They shall hear my voice and there shall be one fold
and one shepherd.
Therefore doth my father love me, why?
Because I lay down my life that I might take it again.
No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself.
I have power to lay it down
and I have power to take it again.
This commandment have I received of my father.
Understand in verse 18 when he says,
no man taketh it from me, it was a voluntary death.
He willingly went.
to the cross of Calvary,
he willingly bled and died such a vicious, horrific death
on the cross of Calvary.
Willingly, why?
So that mankind could be redeemed,
could have that remission of sins.
We find that in John chapter number 18,
in verse number 11,
notice here what we find in John 18, in verse number 11.
And at this particular time,
Jesus has been arrested after he'd been in the garden there
and we find in verse number 11,
then said Jesus unto Peter,
put up thy sword into thy sheath.
The cup which my father hath given me, shall I not drink it?
He told them repeatedly that he was gonna go to Jerusalem
and he was gonna suffer.
He knew what was going to happen, but he did it willingly.
This was the plan of God.
In John 19, what a great declaration in verse number 30,
when Jesus said, it is finished.
It is finished, hallelujah.
Paid in full is what the statement literally means.
It is finished, paid in full.
What is paid in full?
Well, the sin debt of humanity.
See, the reality this morning is that
at the time of creation, man was created perfect,
sinless, but what happened in the garden,
the enemy came in and said, yea, hath God said,
ye shall not surely die.
And what happened?
Well, Eve partook and then Adam partook.
And at that moment in human history,
sin entered into the world and death by sin.
We read that in Romans chapter number five.
And so every single person,
aside from the Lord Jesus Christ,
that's ever been born, has been born a sinner.
It doesn't take long for individuals, if they're honest,
to acknowledge the fact that they're sinners.
The reality is sometimes we can acknowledge
that we're sinners, but we have this idea
that I'm really not as bad as someone else.
And I haven't done the same kind of sins
as some other person has done.
But the reality is we studied last week in the book of James
that if we offend, if we break the law in one area,
we're guilty of all.
And the Bible says that the wages of sin is death.
And all of us are under that curse.
But God loved us, the plan of redemption.
And we see here in Hebrews chapter number 10,
that this plan is outlined for us in verses five through nine
and we're reminded of the wonderful plan
that God had for humanity.
And the reality this morning is that the plan
that Christ gave, or that God gave us in his word,
the plan required a payment.
And we see number two, the payment, the payment of blood.
We see the plan of God in verses five through nine,
but then notice with me the payment of blood
in verses 10 through 13.
The sin debt requires a payment.
The only payment that is sufficient
is the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Notice in verse number 10,
by the which will we are sanctified
through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ
once for all.
And every priest, again, now he's gonna look back
at that Old Testament system,
and every priest standeth daily ministering and offering,
oftentimes, the same sacrifices
which can never take away sins.
But this man, who's this man?
Well, that's Jesus Christ.
That's our Savior, God in flesh.
But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice
for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God
from henceforth expecting till his enemies
be made his footstool.
Understand with me this morning that the payment,
the only accepted payment is the blood of Jesus Christ.
We're all sinners, and sin must be paid for.
And the only accepted payment is the blood
of the Lord Jesus Christ.
You shop, and you are involved in our society,
and you have transactions where there's some payment
that is made, and you go to a particular place of business,
and you order whatever it is that you order.
You get in your cart, whatever you get in your cart,
and you get to the end, and there's a bill that is provided.
In this particular country, there's an accepted currency,
and that's US dollars.
Now, you can use a credit card.
You can use, depending on where you are,
a Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover,
whatever other ones are out there,
you can use a credit card.
But when you're using that credit card,
you still have a debt to pay.
What's happening is Visa is covering that for you,
that transaction, but you still have a debt
that you need to pay, right?
You get the statement at the end of the month.
You say, man, I didn't know I used my credit card that much.
You better pay that thing off, amen?
And the reality is that we understand
there's a bill at the end.
Now, if I try to pay with some other currency,
even if it's a valid currency from another country,
not accepted, right?
Not accepted.
We take this currency at this place of point of service.
Why do I say all of that?
Because a lot of people today are trying to
pay for their sin through some other process.
They're thinking they can be a good person.
They're thinking they can do these good things,
and they're thinking that they can make some payment.
They acknowledge that they're sinners.
They recognize I've sinned, I'm guilty,
but I'm going to try to pay for this myself.
While Jesus has already said it is finished,
it's paid in full, he's already paid for it with his blood.
And so we find that this payment of blood,
the precious blood of Christ,
notice with me in the book of Ephesians,
in chapter number one,
and it's a wonderful passage of scripture
that really has been misunderstood through the ages,
I believe, personally,
as I read through the portion of scripture,
as I read back to the missionary journey
when Paul arrives in Ephesus and preaches
the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ,
we understand in whom in verse 13,
he also trusted after that he heard the word of truth,
the gospel was preached unto them.
The misunderstanding often in Ephesians chapter number one
is that Ephesians one is dealing with the how of salvation,
not the who of salvation.
What I mean by that,
God determined before the foundation of the world,
the how of salvation,
that mankind could only be saved
through the blood of Jesus Christ.
There was only one way to be saved,
that was determined by God
before the foundation of the world.
The Bible tells us that Jesus says,
I am the way, the truth and the life.
No man cometh unto the father,
but by me.
Peter would later say in Acts chapter number four,
there's no other name under heaven given among men
whereby we must be saved.
And so what do we find in those two references
and understanding this even in Ephesians one
is that God determined there's only one way to be saved.
You say, well, I'm gonna try it my way,
you're not gonna make it.
And I say that with love,
because God has given us the way
and he's provided for us the payment it's been made.
And it must be accepted by faith.
But in Ephesians one in verse number seven,
notice what the Bible says.
It says this, in whom we have redemption
through his blood,
the forgiveness of sins,
according to the riches of his grace.
I'm so thankful that our God is gracious.
He's merciful.
In chapter two, it'll say he's rich in mercy
in verse number four.
But we notice here, we're speaking about Hebrews 10,
talking about the remission of sins.
It's kind of interesting here in Ephesians one
in verse number seven,
where the Bible says the forgiveness of sins,
that's the same word that's translated remission.
Why?
Because that's what it means,
forgiveness or pardon of sins.
And so we have a redemption through his blood.
Colossians chapter number one gives us the same reality
in verse number 14.
Now, Paul did not actually go to Colossae.
He did not minister amongst these individuals,
but he heard of their faith.
He heard of their salvation
and he's writing to them under the inspiration
of the Holy Spirit of God.
And he says in verse 14,
in whom we have redemption
through his blood,
even the forgiveness of sins.
The message is consistent.
Why?
Because there's only one way to have forgiveness.
Amen.
Paul tells the church at Ephesus,
he tells the church.
church at Colossae, the same message.
Why?
Because there's only one way to be forgiven,
and it's through the blood.
Notice in verse 14 of Colossians 1
that it says there, in whom we have redemption
through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins.
In many of the modern versions today,
they remove that little phrase through his blood.
You think that's significant?
Absolutely.
Because there's only one way to have redemption,
it's through his blood.
There's only one way to have forgiveness,
If you remove that little statement,
it makes such a big impact.
In 1 Peter, in chapter number one,
we read about this payment,
and it's so beautiful, the passage here,
and I referenced it previous in our first point
about the Lord Jesus Christ being the lamb
that was slain before the foundation of the world,
but I want you to see the entire context here,
and 1 Peter, chapter number one,
begin reading with me in verse 17.
The Bible says, and if you call on the Father,
who without respect of persons,
by the way, I preached about that last week, amen,
partiality condemned.
I'm so thankful that our God is no respecter of persons,
amen, and therefore, as his people,
we ought not be respecters of persons either,
and partiality is condemned in the scriptures,
and we study that in James, chapter number one,
and we find here, and if you call on the Father,
who without respect of persons,
judgeth according to every man's work,
past the time of your sojourning here in fear.
Notice verse 18, for as much as you know,
that you were not redeemed with corruptible things,
as silver and gold from your vain conversation
received by tradition from your fathers,
but with the precious blood of Christ,
as of a lamb without blemish and without spot,
who verily was foreordained
before the foundation of the world,
but was manifest in these last times for you,
who by him do believe in God
that raised him up from the dead
and gave him glory that your faith and hope might be in God.
A lot of people that think, man, I got all these things,
and I'm gonna offer all these things to God.
I can bring the gold and the silver and the things,
and I can try to do these good works, so to speak,
and we understand that that is never going to be possible,
that the remission of sins, the plan of God,
required a payment, and that payment is the blood, period.
Nothing else, and we find that the,
just as we mentioned that the plan required a payment,
the payment results, number three, in the pardon of sin.
That's the result of the payment.
Now, understand with me this morning
that you must accept the free gift.
You must accept that payment personally.
We find that he died for the sins of humanity.
He's not willing that any should perish,
but that all should come to repentance,
but every individual has to make that choice.
The Bible tells us in John chapter number one,
he came to his own, and his own received him not,
but as many as received him, to them gave he power
to become the sons of God,
even to them that believe on his name.
The Bible says, for whosoever shall call
upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.
The reality is that there are some that resist.
They reject the message of God's word.
They believe, listen, the Bible tells us
that the little g God of the world
hath blinded the minds of them that believe not,
lest the light of the glorious gospel
should shine into them.
I've heard a variety of rejections
to the wonderful message that we're speaking of this morning,
the wonderful message of the gospel of salvation.
I've heard people reject it because they think
that it's gotta be more complicated.
There's gotta be more to it than that.
How much more are you gonna add to the fact
that God died for you?
Jesus Christ, God in flesh, he died for you and for me,
and he paid for our sins, hallelujah.
Religion has tried to peddle the idea
that we must work and earn our salvation,
and that it's something that we must work for,
but the reality is it's something
that we simply receive as a gift.
The Bible tells us, notice the significance of this part
in Hebrews chapter number 10,
and look at verse number 14 as we continue in the passage.
The Bible says, for by one offering
he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified.
The word sanctified means to be made holy.
How is it that we're made holy?
Well, through that imputed righteousness.
I mentioned earlier the passage from 2 Corinthians 5
in verse number 20, where the Bible says,
he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin,
that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.
When I trusted Jesus Christ as my personal savior,
on that particular day, I recognized that I was a sinner
and that I was condemned, I was guilty.
I recognized that Jesus loved me and he died for me,
and I called upon him to be my savior,
placing my faith and trust in what the Bible says to be true
for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord
shall be saved, and he saved my soul on that day,
and my name was written, and hallelujah,
I'm a child of his, amen.
It's a wonderful thing, and at that moment,
it wasn't that I brought anything to the table,
I brought nothing to the table, nothing.
I was a sinner, guilty.
You say, well, I'm not really that bad.
You're a sinner and you're guilty.
All the time, I talk to people and they say,
I have never killed anybody, and I'm like,
man, I'm so thankful I'm not in the midst of a murderer,
amen, and praise the Lord for that.
I feel a little bit more comfortable now, you know?
But the reality is that we try to compare
and try to value these things,
but the reality is that we're sinners and we're guilty.
And his righteousness was put onto my account.
It was a transaction that was made, amen.
The songwriter said it's not in our hymnal,
but it's a great song.
Some of you would know it's an old-timey song.
The old account was settled long ago, amen, hallelujah.
It was settled long ago, right?
And we think about that transaction
that was made at that moment,
and the righteousness of Christ was imputed upon my account,
and I was made holy, positionally.
Now, we're to walk in holiness practically, amen,
that progressive sanctification aspect.
Here, we see that we're sanctified positionally.
That happens at the moment of salvation,
but the scriptures clearly teach this progressive
or practical sanctification that I put off the old man
and put on the new and all of that,
but we find, notice what he did.
He perfected forever them that are sanctified.
What an amazing truth.
Verse 15, the Bible says,
"'Whereof the Holy Ghost also is witness to us,
for after that he had said before,
this is the covenant that I will make with them
after those days, saith the Lord.
I will put my laws into their hearts and in their minds.
Will I write them?'
Notice what it says in verse 17.
"'And their sins and iniquities will I remember no more.'"
The Psalms talk about the fact
that they're buried in the deepest sea.
The Psalms talk about they're separated
from as far as the east is from the west,
and we find here in Hebrews 10 and verse 17,
it says, "'And their sins and iniquities
will I remember no more.'"
Why?
Because he's forgiven the remission of sins.
That forgiveness, remember we said,
it's letting them go as if they had never been committed.
It's not the idea of turning a blind eye.
It's not the idea of sweeping it under the rug.
No, it's that Jesus Christ, God in flesh, paid for the sins.
Have you ever had somebody pay for your bill
at a restaurant or something?
I've had it happen a few times.
And sometimes you have, sometimes it happens
where there's somebody across the restaurant,
you might not even know who they are,
and they just observed your family,
like, you know what, I wanna pay for them.
It's happened.
And they just go out and they just pay for the bill,
like, hey, let me have their bill, I'm gonna pay for it.
And then you don't know that it happened,
and then you go up to try to pay for the bill,
and what do they say?
It's already paid for.
You say, hold on, who paid for it?
I don't know, some person,
they wanted to pay for your bill.
What do you do at that moment?
You're thankful, right?
Hallelujah, somebody paid for my bill.
You're not gonna, they can't take your money, right?
Sometimes they have in these drive-thrus
a pay it forward kind of thing.
I think it always ends with the car in front of me, amen?
But the reality is sometimes they'll do this thing,
hey, I'm gonna pay for mine,
I'm gonna pay for yours, I'm gonna pay for yours.
pay for the person behind me.
And then you get up there and they say,
hey, listen, these people,
there's been 47 cars that have gone through
and it just keeps going, pay it forward, whatever.
And guess what?
You're not paying for yours.
Why do I say that?
Because Jesus paid for it.
He's paid for it.
He's forgiven.
And it's available to you.
And if you're here this morning
and you've trusted Christ as your Savior,
you have that remission, you have that forgiveness.
But notice the truth of verse 18.
So important as we finish this section in Hebrews 10.
The Bible says this, now where remission of these is,
there is no more offering for sin.
Many have taken this verse
and they've taken out of context,
they've had various aspects of teaching and what have you.
But let me try to, with the Lord's help,
explain what I understand this to mean
at the end of verse 18,
where it says there is no more offering for sin.
In fact, in verse number 26, at the end of the verse,
it says there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins.
What is it referring to?
Well, nothing else is acceptable.
This once for all payment that Jesus Christ made
on the cross of Calvary is the only,
underline it, bold it, whatever you wanna do,
it is the only acceptable way to be pardoned.
It's it.
There's no other, there is no more offering for sin,
there is no more sacrifice for sins.
This is the only way.
Hallelujah, that we know the truth.
But the truth makes us responsible.
There are many today that think
that there's some other way.
Well, there's gotta be something,
are you gonna go to heaven when you die?
Well, I really hope so.
Well, why do you say you hope so?
Because I'm trying to be a good person.
You ever hear somebody say that?
Before I got saved, before I understood the truth
of the Bible, before I understood the gospel,
that was kind of my mentality.
Good and bad and like this scale,
like this, this is just what I thought.
No one really taught that to me.
It was just kind of, I didn't go to church anywhere,
I wasn't really taught that from any type of religion,
it was just what I thought.
But then I began to read the Bible.
Began to hear the gospel preached and understand,
for by grace are you saved through faith,
and that not of yourselves.
It is the gift of God, not of works,
lest any man should boast, Ephesians 2, verses 8 and 9.
You begin to have to process the truth of Ephesians 2, 8, 9
and say, okay, the Bible says not of works,
lest any man should boast.
And really kind of this idea that if I could make it
to heaven because I was a good enough person
and I made it and you didn't,
then I have area to boast and to brag and say,
look it, I made it.
No, it's all level ground at the cross.
For by grace are you saved through faith.
We understand that it's not by works of righteousness
in Titus, chapter number three,
he puts it so plainly there, just as he did
in Ephesians 2, 8, 9, not by works of righteousness,
which we have done, but according to his mercy,
he saved us by the washing of regeneration
and renewing of the Holy Ghost.
See, this idea where it says no more offering for sin,
there's some folks that have never understood
the truth of the gospel.
There's some maybe that have been exposed
to the truth of the gospel, but they think
that there's something that they can do
to earn God's favor.
Can I tell you this morning, God loves you.
For God so loved the world
that he gave his only begotten son,
that whosoever believeth in him should not perish,
but have everlasting life.
Romans five says this, but God commendeth,
that word means to demonstrate,
God commendeth his love toward us
in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
God loves you, there's nothing you're going to do
to make God love you anymore.
God loves you.
He loves you and he died for you.
And he offers to you this free gift of eternal life.
Many of you here this morning, I know you personally,
you've shared with me your testimony personally
how you've trusted Jesus Christ as your personal savior.
But I've not spoken to every single person
that's here this morning.
I don't know every single person
that's tuned in via live stream this morning.
So it would be important for us to understand this morning
that there could be, it's possible this morning
that there's at least one, maybe there are several
under the sound of my voice today
that have never trusted Jesus Christ
as their personal savior.
They're going through life and they're hoping and wishing
that when they die, they're going to go to heaven.
They're fearful of death
because they don't know what's going to happen.
And they're struggling with this internal lack
of confidence and lack of just God's grace and peace.
Can I tell you this morning and get it settled?
The Bible says that today is the day of salvation.
Boast not thyself of tomorrow.
Listen, we don't know what a day will bring forth.
I read just a report this morning
about three seniors in high school in Spotsylvania County
that died on Friday night in a car accident.
I don't know if you saw on the news or not.
Three of them, weeks away from graduation.
Man, it's sad, it's tragic.
I think the number is something like 50,000 people
every day that die.
I don't know when I'm going to die.
The Bible told us in Hebrews 9,
if you look back just a few verses
from where we've been looking this morning,
as it is appointed unto man wants to die.
After this, the judgment.
I don't say any of that to scare anybody.
I just simply say we ought to be prepared.
We ought to be prepared.
How can I be prepared?
Well, Paul says this.
I remember somebody telling me one day,
you can't know that you're going to go to heaven.
And I said, really?
I said, do you believe the Bible?
They told me they had gone to a church and I said,
well, yeah, I believe the Bible.
I said, do you know who Paul is?
And they say, I know who Paul is.
I said, well, Paul said this.
He said, to be absent from the body
is to be present with the Lord.
In 2 Corinthians chapter number five.
I said, in fact, he talked about the confidence
in that chapter repeatedly.
I said, then he's talking to the believers in Philippi
and he says that he was understanding
that for me to live is Christ, but to die is gain.
He further says that he was in a strait betwixt two,
having the desire to depart to be with Christ,
which is far better.
Paul had confidence, why?
Not because of what he did,
but because of what Jesus Christ did for him.
Mr. Don this morning has confidence.
He has confidence.
He told me this on Wednesday.
I saw him in the hospital room and I said,
Mr. Don, I understand you're going home tomorrow.
And he said, really?
Now understand he can't talk as well
as I'm gonna say that he's talking.
And here's what he said.
I wanna go to heaven from my house, not from the hospital.
Thursday we were there singing and talking and praying.
And he kept pointing at himself and pointing up.
Ready to go to heaven.
He has confidence.
Why?
Because he was a good man?
No, because he placed his faith and trust in Jesus Christ.
That's the only way that any human being
will ever go to heaven,
is through placing their faith and trust in Jesus Christ,
in Christ alone.
What was it?
Once for all.
Hallelujah.
Aren't you thankful this morning?
If you're not saved, can I plead with you this morning?
Today's the day of salvation.
You don't know what a day is gonna bring forth.
Don't harden your heart.
Don't reject the gospel.
I understand you have a choice, you have a decision.
It's your choice.
No one can force you.
In fact, if we forced you,
we simply make a hypocrite out of you.
We can't force it.
It's a personal decision.
But I wanna encourage you this morning.
Don't leave here without knowing for sure
that heaven is your home.
This week, so all these Easter celebrations,
all this stuff going on with Easter,
and whatever, there's a huge significance
about what we're looking at this week.
And what we see today is that,
as we think about that entrance, that triumphal entrance,
how quickly it changed from hosanna to crucify him.
But it was always the plan of God
that he would enter into with those hosannas,
knowing that he was entering in
so he could go to that cross.
Because he was gonna pay for your sin,
and my sin, and the sin of the world.
If you're not saved, today is the day of salvation.
If you're saved this morning,
man, this week, what an opportunity
to tell somebody about the significance
of what we're celebrating.
It is not about an Easter bunny and a bunch of eggs.
If you wanna do that, I'm not gonna fight with you about it,
but that's not what it's about.
Our world has a really good way of marketing holidays.
This week is a holy week.
It's significant for us as believers.
And if we know the truth, then we are responsible to share the truth.
Let's pray together.
Father we love you.
Thank you so much for loving us.
Thank you for the day.
Thank you for the word.
I pray Father that you would help us to rejoice in our salvation.
Father I acknowledge this morning that there may be one, there may be several that are
here today that are not saved.
They've never trusted Jesus Christ as their personal savior.
Oh I pray that before they leave this place that they would get it settled.
That they would not leave here without knowing for sure that heaven is their home.
Father if there's one on livestream tuned in, would you please work in their heart and
help them to accept the free gift of eternal life.
We thank you for the significance of this week and I pray that as believers, as followers
of Jesus Christ that you would help us Lord this week to be verbal witnesses.
Give us boldness to go forth and proclaim the glorious gospel that Jesus saves.
I pray that you'd have your will and way in this moment of invitation and we'll give you
the glory for all that will take place for it's in Christ's name we pray.
Amen.
Would you stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.
We have a time of invitation in our service and that just gives you an opportunity to
respond.
Maybe someone this morning wants to respond by thanking God for their salvation, recognizing
they've been saved by the grace of God and they're just so thankful and maybe that saved
person wants to commit this week to sharing the gospel with at least one person and the
altar would be open for you.
Let me say this.
If you're here this morning and you're not sure of heaven, we'd take a Bible and show
you how you could know for sure that heaven is your home so that you would not leave this
place without having that assurance.
If you'd come during the invitation, we'd be glad to take a Bible and show you directly
from God's word how you could leave here knowing for sure that heaven is your home.
As Kimberly plays, the altar is open.